1. What advantages do Excel spreadsheets have over CSV spreadsheets?

ANS=>Excel spreadsheets have several advantages over CSV spreadsheets:

Formatting: Calculation: Multiple sheets: Macros: 

2.What do you pass to csv.reader() and csv.writer() to create reader and writer objects?

ANS=>To create reader and writer objects in Python's csv module, you need to pass a file object to the csv.reader() and csv.writer() functions.

we opened the file data.csv in read mode and passed it to the csv.reader() function, which created a reader object named reader.

Similarly, to create a writer object, you can pass a file object that you want to write CSV data to:
we opened the file output.csv in write mode and passed it to the csv.writer() function, which created a writer object named writer.

3. What modes do File objects for reader and writer objects need to be opened in?

ANS=>When working with reader and writer objects in Python's csv module, you need to open the file objects in the appropriate mode.

To create a reader object, you should open the file object in read mode ('r') to read the CSV data from the file:

4. What method takes a list argument and writes it to a CSV file?

ANS=>To write a list of data to a CSV file in Python's csv module, you can use the writerow() method of a csv.writer object.

The writerow() method takes a list argument containing the values you want to write to the CSV file, where each element of the list corresponds to a column in the CSV file.

5. What do the keyword arguments delimiter and line terminator do?

ANS=>In Python's csv module, you can use the delimiter and lineterminator keyword arguments to customize the formatting of the CSV output.

The delimiter argument specifies the character to use as the delimiter between fields in the CSV file. By default, the delimiter is a comma (,), but you can change it to any other character, such as a semicolon (;) or a tab (\t)

6. What function takes a string of JSON data and returns a Python data structure?

ANS=>To convert a string of JSON data into a Python data structure, you can use the json.loads() function from Python's built-in json module.

The json.loads() function takes a single argument, which is the JSON string to be converted into a Python data structure. The function returns a Python data structure such as a dictionary, list, or string, depending on the contents of the JSON data.

7. What function takes a Python data structure and returns a string of JSON data?

ANS=>To convert a Python data structure into a string of JSON data, you can use the json.dumps() function from Python's built-in json module.

The json.dumps() function takes a single argument, which is the Python data structure to be converted into a JSON string. The function returns a JSON string that represents the contents of the Python data structure.
